{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\viewkind4\uc1\pard\lang1033\f0\fs20NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
IBM Data Server Driver Package v11.5\par
\par
The IBM license agreement and any applicable information on the web\par
download page for IBM products refers Licensee to this file for details\par
concerning notices applicable to code included in the products listed\par
above ("the Program").\par
\par
Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of any other agreement Licensee\par
may have with IBM or any of its related or affiliated entities\par
(collectively "IBM"), the third party code identified below is subject\par
to the terms and conditions of the IBM license agreement for the Program\par
and not the license terms that may be contained in the notices below.\par
The notices are provided for informational purposes.\par
\par
Please note: This Notices file may identify information that is not used\par
by, or that was not shipped with, the Program as Licensee installed it.\par
\par
IMPORTANT: IBM does not represent or warrant that the information in this\par
NOTICES file is accurate. Third party websites are independent of IBM and\par
IBM does not represent or warrant that the information on any third party\par
website referenced in this NOTICES file is accurate. IBM disclaims any\par
and all liability for errors and omissions or for any damages accruing\par
from the use of this NOTICES file or its contents, including without\par
limitation URLs or references to any third party websites.\par
\par
\'ef\'bb\'bf\par
 ===================================================================================\par
ActiveRecord V2.2.3. The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
The MIT License\par
Copyright (c) <year> <copyright holders>\par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy\par
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal\par
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights\par
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell\par
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is\par
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\par
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in\par
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.\par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR\par
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,\par
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE\par
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER\par
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,\par
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN\par
THE SOFTWARE. \par
END OF ACTIVERECORD NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
===================================================================================\par
ANTLR V3.3. The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
\par
ANTLR 3 License\par
\par
[The BSD License]\par
Copyright (c) 2003-2008, Terence Parr\par
All rights reserved. \par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: \par
\'c2\'b7\tab Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. \par
\'c2\'b7\tab Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. \par
\'c2\'b7\tab Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. \par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF ANTLR NOTICES AND INFORMATION  \par
===================================================================================\par
ARQ V2.8.8 and Jena V2.6.4.  The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
 (c) Copyright 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP\par
 (c) Copyright 2010 Talis Information Ltd\par
 All rights reserved.\par
\par
 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 are met:\par
 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products\par
    derived from this software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
 THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR\par
 IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES\par
 OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.\par
 IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,\par
 INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
 NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
 DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY\par
 THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT\par
 (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF\par
 THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF ARQ and JENA NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
\par
===================================================================================\par
\par
APACHE CODE II. The following are notices and other important information with respect to \par
this third party code.  The Program includes all or portions of the following software developed by the\par
Apache Software Foundation.  This software consists of voluntary contributions made by many \par
individuals on behalf of the Apache Software Foundation.  For more information on the Apache Software \par
Foundation, please see http://www.apache.org.  The following is the list of third party governed under V2.0 of \par
the Apache license:\par
\par
   Apache XML4C V5.8 \par
\par
IBM obtained the right to use the software under the following license from the Apache \par
\par
Software Foundation:  \par
\par
/*\par
 *                                 Apache License\par
 *                           Version 2.0, January 2004\par
 *                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/\par
 *\par
 *   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION\par
 *\par
 *   1. Definitions.\par
 *\par
 *      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,\par
 *      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.\par
 *\par
 *      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by\par
 *      the copyright owner that is granting the License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all\par
 *      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common\par
 *      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,\par
 *      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the\par
 *      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or\par
 *      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the\par
 *      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.\par
 *\par
 *      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity\par
 *      exercising permissions granted by this License.\par
 *\par
 *      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,\par
 *      including but not limited to software source code, documentation\par
 *      source, and configuration files.\par
 *\par
 *      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical\par
 *      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but\par
 *      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,\par
 *      and conversions to other media types.\par
 *\par
 *      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or\par
 *      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a\par
 *      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work\par
 *      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).\par
 *\par
 *      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object\par
 *      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the\par
 *      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other \par
 *      modifications\par
 *      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the \par
 *      purposes\par
 *      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain\par
 *      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces\par
 *      of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.\par
 *\par
 *      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including\par
 *      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions\par
 *      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally\par
 *      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright  \par
 *      owner\par
 *      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of\par
 *      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"\par
 *      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent\par
 *      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to\par
 *      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control \par
 *      systems,and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on \par
 *      behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving\par
 *      the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked\par
 *      or otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as\par
 *      "Not a Contribution."\par
 *\par
 *      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity\par
 *      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and\par
 *      subsequently incorporated within the Work.\par
 *\par
 *   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
 *      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
 *      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,\par
 *      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the\par
 *      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.\par
 *\par
 *   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,\par
 *      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable\par
 *      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,\par
 *      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,\par
 *      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable\par
 *      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their\par
 *      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)\par
 *      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You\par
 *      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a\par
 *      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work\par
 *      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct\par
 *      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses\par
 *      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate\par
 *      as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
 *\par
 *   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the\par
 *      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without\par
 *      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You\par
 *      meet the following conditions:\par
 *\par
 *      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or\par
 *          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and\par
 *\par
 *      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices\par
 *          stating that You changed the files; and\par
 *\par
 *      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works\par
 *          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and\par
 *          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,\par
 *          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of\par
 *          the Derivative Works; and\par
 *\par
 *      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its\par
 *          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must\par
 *          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained\par
 *          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not\par
 *          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one\par
 *          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed\par
 *          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or\par
 *          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,\par
 *          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and\par
 *          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents\par
 *          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and\par
 *          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution\par
 *          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside\par
 *          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided\par
 *          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed\par
 *          as modifying the License.\par
 *\par
 *      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and\par
 *      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions\par
 *      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or\par
 *      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,\par
 *      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with\par
 *      the conditions stated in this License.\par
 *\par
 *   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,\par
 *      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work\par
 *      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of\par
 *      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.\par
 *      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify\par
 *      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed\par
 *      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.\par
 *\par
 *   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade\par
 *      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,\par
 *      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the\par
 *      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.\par
 *\par
 *   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or\par
 *      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each\par
 *      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
 *      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or\par
 *      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions\par
 *      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A\par
 *      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the\par
 *      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any\par
 *      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this\par
 *      License.\par
 *\par
 *   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,\par
 *      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,\par
 *      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly\par
 *      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be\par
 *      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,\par
 *      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a\par
 *      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the\par
 *      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,\par
 *      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all\par
 *      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor\par
 *      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.\par
 *\par
 *   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing\par
 *      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,\par
 *      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,\par
 *      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this\par
 *      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only\par
 *      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf\par
 *      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,\par
 *      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability\par
 *      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason\par
 *      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.\par
 *\par
 *   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\par
 *\par
 *   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.\par
 *\par
 *      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following\par
 *      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[ ]"\par
 *      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include\par
 *      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate\par
 *      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a\par
 *      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the\par
 *      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier\par
 *      identification within third-party archives.\par
 *\par
 *   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]\par
 *\par
 *   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");\par
 *   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.\par
 *   You may obtain a copy of the License at\par
 *\par
 *       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0\par
 *\par
 *   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software\par
 *   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,\par
 *   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.\par
 *   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and\par
 *   limitations under the License.\par
 */\par
\par
END OF APACHE II NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
===========================================================================\par
GSKit V8 CODE.  The following are notices and other important information with respect to this third party code.\par
\par
The GSKit V8 program includes the following:\par
\par
1)  OpenSSL License\par
2)  zLIb License\par
3)  ICU License\par
\par
 \par
1) OpenSSL\par
 \par
\par
  LICENSE ISSUES\par
  -------------- \par
\par
  The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a dual license, i.e. both the conditions of\par
  the OpenSSL License and the original SSLeay license apply to the toolkit.\par
  See below for the actual license texts. Actually both licenses are BSD-style\par
  Open Source licenses. In case of any license issues related to OpenSSL\par
  please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
\par
  a)  OpenSSL License\par
   \par
\par
/*  \par
 * Copyright (c) 1998-2008 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 *\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 *\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in\par
 *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the\par
 *    distribution.\par
 *\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this\par
 *    software must display the following acknowledgment:\par
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
 *\par
 * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to\par
 *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without\par
 *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact\par
 *    openssl-core@openssl.org.\par
 *\par
 * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"\par
 *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written\par
 *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.\par
 *\par
 * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following\par
 *    acknowledgment:\par
 *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project\par
 *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY\par
 * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR\par
 * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR\par
 * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,\par
 * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT\par
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;\par
 * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,\par
 * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)\par
 * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
 * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 *  \par
 *\par
 * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young\par
 * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim\par
 * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 *\par
 */\par
\par
 b) Original SSLeay License\par
    \par
\par
/* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)\par
 * All rights reserved.\par
 *\par
 * This package is an SSL implementation written\par
 * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).\par
 * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.\par
 *\par
 * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as\par
 * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions\par
 * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,\par
 * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation\par
 * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms\par
 * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).\par
 *\par
 * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in\par
 * the code are not to be removed.\par
 * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution\par
 * as the author of the parts of the library used.\par
 * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or\par
 * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.\par
 *\par
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without\par
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions\par
 * are met:\par
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the\par
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.\par
 * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software\par
 *    must display the following acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by\par
 *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library\par
 *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).\par
 * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from\par
 *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:\par
 *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"\par
 *\par
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND\par
 * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE\par
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE\par
 * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
 * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL\par
 * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS\par
 * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)\par
 * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
 * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY\par
 * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF\par
 * SUCH DAMAGE.\par
 *\par
 * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or\par
 * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be\par
 * copied and put under another distribution licence\par
 * [including the GNU Public Licence.]\par
 */\par
\par
\par
End of OpenSSL License\par
**********************************************************\par
\par
2)  zlib License \par
\par
/* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library\par
  version 1.2.4, March 14th, 2010\par
\par
  Copyright (C) 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler\par
\par
  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied\par
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages\par
  arising from the use of this software.\par
\par
  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,\par
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it\par
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:\par
\par
  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not\par
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software\par
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be\par
     appreciated but is not required.\par
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be\par
     misrepresented as being the original software.\par
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.\par
\par
  Jean-loup Gailly\par
  Mark Adler\par
\par
*/\par
\par
\par
End of zlib License\par
**********************************************************\par
\par
3) ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later\par
COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE\par
Copyright (c) 1995-2010 International Business Machines Corporation and others \par
All rights reserved. \par
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. \par
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. \par
Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder. \par
All trademarks and registered trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners. \par
\par
End of ICU License\par
**********************************************************\par
End of GSKit V8 License\par
===========================================================================\par
\par
JLINE V0.9.93 CODE.  The following are notices and other important information with respect to this \par
third party code.\par
\par
Copyright (c) 2002-2006, Marc Prud'hommeaux <mwp1@cornell.edu>\par
All rights reserved.\par
\par
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or\par
without modification, are permitted provided that the following\par
conditions are met:\par
\par
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright\par
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.\par
\par
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright\par
notice, this list of conditions and the Jline following disclaimer\par
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with\par
the distribution.\par
\par
Neither the name of JLine nor the names of its contributors\par
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this\par
software without specific prior written permission.\par
\par
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS\par
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING,\par
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY\par
AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO\par
EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE\par
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY,\par
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,\par
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,\par
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED\par
AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT\par
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING\par
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED\par
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.\par
\par
END OF JLINE NOTICES AND INFORMATION \par
\par
===================================================================================\par
\par
Microsoft Public License\par
  \par
The Program includes some or all of the following that IBM obtained under the Microsoft Public License:\par
\par
entityDmlSqlGenerator.cs \par
entityISqlFragment.cs\par
entityJoinSymbol.cs\par
entityMetadataHelpers.cs\par
entityProviderManifest.cs\par
entityProviderServices.cs\par
entitySqlBuilder.cs\par
entitySqlGenerator.cs\par
entitySqlSelectStatement.cs\par
entitySqlWriter.cs\par
entitySymbol.cs\par
entitySymbolPair.cs\par
entitySymbolTable.cs\par
entityTopClause.cs\par
\par
End of Information under the Microsoft Public License\par
===================================================================================\par
T.J. Watson Libraries for Analysis (WALA) 1.3.1.  The following are notices and other important information with respect to this \par
third party code.\par
\par
Eclipse Public License - v 1.0\par
THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.\par
1. DEFINITIONS\par
"Contribution" means:\par
a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation distributed under this Agreement, and\par
b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:\par
i) changes to the Program, and\par
ii) additions to the Program;\par
where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program.\par
"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.\par
"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the Program.\par
"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.\par
"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including all Contributors.\par
2. GRANT OF RIGHTS\par
a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and object code form.\par
b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.\par
c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the Program.\par
d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in this Agreement.\par
3. REQUIREMENTS\par
A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its own license agreement, provided that:\par
a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and\par
b) its license agreement:\par
i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;\par
ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such as lost profits;\par
iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and\par
iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.\par
When the Program is made available in source code form:\par
a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and\par
b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.\par
Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the Program.\par
Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.\par
4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION\par
Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.\par
For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.\par
5. NO WARRANTY\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.\par
6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY\par
EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\par
7. GENERAL\par
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.\par
If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.\par
All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and survive.\par
Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.\par
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.\par
\par
END OF WALA NOTICES AND INFORMATION\par
\par
================================================================================\par
NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR SUPPORTED STANDARDS\par
\par
W3C(R) SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE\par
http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231\par
This work (and included software, documentation such as READMEs, or other related items) is \par
\par
being provided by the copyright holders under the following license. By obtaining, using \par
\par
and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you have read, understood, and will \par
\par
comply with the following terms and conditions.\par
Permission to copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation, with or \par
\par
without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is hereby granted, provided \par
\par
that you include the following on ALL copies of the software and documentation or portions \par
\par
thereof, including modifications:\par
The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the redistributed or \par
\par
derivative work.\par
Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and conditions. If \par
\par
none exist, the W3C Software Short Notice should be included (hypertext is preferred, text \par
\par
is permitted) within the body of any redistributed or derivative code.\par
Notice of any changes or modifications to the files, including the date changes were made. \par
\par
(We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code is derived.)\par
THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE NO \par
\par
REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO, WARRANTIES \par
\par
OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR \par
\par
DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER \par
\par
RIGHTS.\par
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL \par
\par
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.\par
The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or publicity \par
\par
pertaining to the software without specific, written prior permission. Title to copyright in \par
\par
this software and any associated documentation will at all times remain with copyright \par
\par
holders.\par
____________________________________\par
This formulation of W3C's notice and license became active on December 31 2002. This version \par
\par
removes the copyright ownership notice such that this license can be used with materials \par
\par
other than those owned by the W3C, reflects that ERCIM is now a host of the W3C, includes \par
\par
references to this specific dated version of the license, and removes the ambiguous grant of \par
\par
"use". Otherwise, this version is the same as the previous version and is written so as to \par
\par
preserve the Free Software Foundation's assessment of GPL compatibility and OSI's \par
\par
certification under the Open Source Definition. Please see our Copyright FAQ for common \par
\par
questions about using materials from our site, including specific terms and conditions for \par
\par
packages like libwww, Amaya, and Jigsaw. Other questions about this notice can be directed \par
\par
to site-policy@w3.org.\par
 \par
Joseph Reagle <site-policy@w3.org> \par
Last revised $Id: copyright-software-20021231.html,v 1.11 2004/07/06 16:02:49 slesch Exp $\par
================================================================================\par
\par
END OF W3C DOCUMENT LICENSE INFORMATION\par
\par
======================================================================\par
\par
END OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR SUPPORTED STANDARDS\par
\par
======================================================================\par
\par
END OF NOTICES AND INFORMATION FOR: IBM DATA SERVER DRIVER PACKAGE V11.5 \par
\par
\par
L/N:  L-XHUG-BAFKCU\par
D/N:  L-XHUG-BAFKCU\par
P/N:  L-XHUG-BAFKCU\par
}
 